I am back, and we are going to add some
types to this terrible TypeScript function
cuz right now it just says
with any all over the place,
which is why even have this in TypeScript?
All right, so let's think about this,
like I said before,
this case here has to be able to support,
any other possible conditions.
And you can see that like passing that one
number, is already upsetting TypeScript.
So first thing we know
that we need to do is,
we need to say like that
b can be optional, right?
That that appeased it but
it still doesn't really kinda we still
have any all over the place, it's tricky.
We know that one of the cases
is that it returns a number,
Which now upsets it when we
try to return a function.
Before it was, I'll take anything and
I'll return anything,
I might as well not even be types here.
But now we're saying, one of the cases
is that it could return a number, and
we know that the other case is that it can
return a function, that takes a number and
returns a number.
And you can do this in line, and
if it makes you sad, you can pull it out.
So we can say really if
you didn't have a b,
let's take another may have
a function that takes a b argument,
which should be a number, and
it returns a number, right?
That that should work in a second
right right now it's angry,
we had to put in parentheses.
We in the messages helps too I don't know
that parentheses will work like that, but
we can also pull it out as well.
And so now this will
theoretically do the trick for
us, we'll deal with that in a second.
But we have the situation where
the function it'll either has an a,
it possibly takes a b, or return a number,
or a function that will return a number.
Cool, so that'll work for us, but we wanna
add those overloads in there as well.
So, the two signatures that we want to
take two arguments, you get back a number,
one argument you get back
a function that takes a number, so
let's start with the easier one so
this a function.
Again it looks exactly the first
line in a function declaration so
we'll say in this case a is number,
and b is also a number.
So now it's no longer optional
in this case in that case,
we will in fact, return a number.
Cool, and that is making everything happy
except for the ones when I pass one in
there, so let's actually support
that use case as well, and
you can see those got
really angry down there.
And so in worst case we have one that only
supports a number, in this case it will be
that, Second piece here, And
now TypeScript is happy.
If you give back two numbers, it knows
it's the version that takes two numbers
and returns a number, if you give it one
number, it knows it's the version that
takes one number and returns a function
waiting for the second number, right?
So we've now given this add function
to different function signatures,
depending on how it was called.
And TypeScript can now confirm and
now it's not giving you like yeah,
it could be a function or it could be
a number or anything along those lines,
it now knows kind of deterministically
the two that it supports.
So it can winded down but
again this line here has to be
kind of the cover all your bases,
it will work and
then you can basically refine
the type above with the overloads.
All right, so now let's bring
that into a react situation.
Right, so we're gonna go into this
demanding props based on other props,
and we have a version of our
text component from before,
and it can be expanded and truncated.
And let's open this app real quick, so
there's two props here
we'll see in a second.
We we wanna say is,
that we can only use the expanded boolea,
if it's truncated, right?
We don't wanna support saying
expand is true or false,
if it's not truncated, right?
Again, this is one of those things
where in a component library you just
wanna be deterministic, on how your
code is expected to be used, right?
So right now I could totally take out
truncate, and expanded as still supported,
I wanna make, Truncated or truncate yes or
no for that one but like you cannot use
expanded unless truncate is included,
that is that is the goal of what
we are seeking to do in this case.
All right, so we have to make three
combinations of this component.
Just every use case which is what we have,
right we're already one-third
of the way there, we have the one that
can handle either truncate or expanded.
Now we wanna to have one that is just
truncate with no expanded prop whatsoever,
and then we want truncate and
the optional expanded prop.
Now what's important there
is what we don't have,
which is we're not going
to write an implementation,
that supports having an expanded
prop without a truncate prop, right?
So expanded should only
exist if truncate is true.
All right, so how would this look?
Well we've got TextProps and
TextProps will end up being that
pattern that we've used a few times so
far which is, what are the common things
remember we did this to the buttons.
We had one with primary was a boolean, but
the other two were never we had
all the different combinations.
But the idea that there was a child
react child, their children,
was common to all the different iterations
that we might have around the type.
So we'll keep that, and we'll make
a type called NoTruncateTextProps,
Which is everything
that's in TextProps plus,
we're gonna say truncate is false.
Just to kind of be clear about this,
we're not saying that's the boolean,
we're saying that this is a version
where it is set to false in this case.
And then we will have another version
called TruncateTextProps, and
that is going to be TextProps,
in a situation where truncate is true.
And of truncate is true,
then expanded can be a boolean.
So what we don't have is a situation
where truncate is false and
expanded exist on the type at all, right?
Or once we move it from here,
so this is the children,
this is a version that where
truncate is false or undefined.
And this is one where it's true and
then we will take an expanded prop, so
if truncate doesn't exist, there's no
world where we take an expanded prop.
Now we need to add those
additional signatures,
on top of the component, so
those will go right here.
The other thing you'll notice that like,
generally speaking this course I prefer
arrow functions just cuz I do but,
with overloads I don't believe
there is a syntax that supports
arrow functions so, you have to
do it as a function declaration.
So here one that is text and that is going
to be where the props are the NoTruncate,
TextProps, and
will return the JSX.Element.
We'll have a situation where we
do have the TruncateTextProps,
And will return a JSX.Element,
JSX has a red squiggly line,
just cuz code sandbox is es lint,
is like I don't know what that is, but
it's supported in the react types so
don't stress out about that.
And then finally we'll have
the kind of base case here,
which we could have common TextProps or
something like that as well,
I'm just gonna write it
in line in this case.
Where it's gonna be, We'll say it's,
TextProps, so that common one, and
then it's basically what we had earlier,
right?
Where we had the two optional
ones cuz again every
situation that could happen
has to be supported.
So we could say this point
that truncate is optional,
Is and is Boolean, And expanded.
It's optional and it's a boolean as well,
so basically what we had originally.
And now you can see that we've got
the kind of base case that we had before,
plus these two refinements on it.
So now if we go ahead and
we remove truncate, it's angry with us.
It's you can't expand something
that's not truncated, but
we can remove expanded, right?
So again, the theme that we've been
hammering on here is the ability to be
a little bit just more intentional about
how you expect this component to be used.
To hopefully reduce edge cases right
again that kind of pseudoscience doesn't
feel fair because I'm sure there was some
research done into the idea of having
a type system reduces bugs by 15% or
whatever.
You can see where that would come
from at least, the idea that we're
covering just enough edge cases in how
we get sophisticated with our types.
That a whole bunch of just ways that
a component might accidentally be used,
are no longer allowed by our type system,
right?
And so we can do that as well,
all right great, question.
Yeah, the chat points out that function
declarations are also preferred
cuz they hoisted better and you can
actually use them and define them below.
Yeah there's a lot of reasons why a lot of
people still prefer function declarations,
it's a matter of choice.
If you use a function expression,
you have to define it before you use it.
And it used to be in
the chrome tools that,
you wouldn't get the name of
the function and your error messages.
The developer tools have gotten better
where you actually will get the name of
the function even if you
use a function expression.
But they behave slightly differently, this
kind of goes back I think we talked about
this briefly when we talked about types
and interfaces where they're 90% the same,
but slightly different.
And you need to be aware of the fact that
they could behave slightly differently but
it ultimately does come down
to a matter of preference.
I'm gonna walk a very fine line here,
how about this?
I think that function declarations
are probably the better choice, but
I still write function expressions
using arrow functions.